reating Maps of Materials -- Aimed at high school level?

P-T diagrams are maps of elements, or molecules which tell us how they behave at different temperatures and pressures.

For example, water's p-t diagram tells us at which pressures and temperatures it exists as a solid - ice, a liquid - water, and a gas - steam.

So, why do these different phases of matter occur? Well, in the same way that a ball likes to roll down a hill to reduce its energy, molecules like to be in the shape that reduces their energy. This energy is the energy that you'd have to put in to pull all the atoms apart. The structure that's hardest to pull apart is the one it'll exist as.

There are loads of different types of solid structures that an element can take, for example crystals like FCC BCC

Which we can see in Lithium's phase diagram.

If we want to create these P-T diagrams for some molecule, usually we can just go to a lab with some of the stuff and heat it and crush it and see how it behaves.

But what if we want to pressurize it like the core of jupiter, or cool it down to absolute z e r o?

We can't get there easily in a lab, but we can simulate it on a computer.

So, how do we do this? 

We use DFT. Density functional theory.

Density functional theory is a way to turn the complicated quantum mechanical behaviour of the electrons in a crystal into some equations much more easily solveable by a computer.

These simulations spit out where the electrons will be in a crystal, and from this we can get the energy.

To probe the different pressures, we squash and pull our different structures. To probe different temperatures, we wiggle the atoms. The harder they wiggle, the hotter it gets.

From these calculations of the different structures for the same molecule or element, we can overlay the energy curves and see which structure is preferred at each temperature and pressure. 

Now for some proof that this all works:

Here's one I made earlier

Looking at the metal sodium with FCC and BCC structures down to absolute zero. This diagram gives evidence against the previously held belief that sodium exists in some complicated structure called 9R at 0 pressure 0 temperature. 
